# QA Coding Challenge
Coding and test plan challenges for QA candidates

# Instructions
- Clone this repo to your local machine
- Use it to create a new repo on GitHub under your own account (please don't use GitHub fork to accomplish this)
- Complete the challenge described below
- Cleanup commit history to have 1 commit per challenge, in order, on the master branch.
- Send us an email with a link to your repo

___
## Challenge 1. Test a static HTML page
Using any python test framework, write a test that makes sure that https://www.google.com/ is up. The goal is not to test the content of the page but rather make sure that the page is available.

* Provide instructions how to run your test. Part of this assignment is to see how you would hand off *production* code to your fellow engineers.

> *******************************************
> Instructions how to retrieve automation code:  retrieve from git by entering below command line
>                                                git clone https://github.com/rbuscato/QA_V1.git
> *******************************************
> Instructions how to run test:
> Pre-req: Chrome browser is installed.     (note: install of the prerequisites is outside scope of this.)
> Pre-req: python and pytest are installed.  
>  at command line enter :  'python --version' and 'pytest -- version'
>  Should receive the version : pytest 6.0.1
>
>  Navigate to the folder where you downloaded the git project. Ensure you are at same dir level as /tests.
>  run pytest from command line with following flag to produce an HTML report:
	for example (you can use any name you like)
	$pytest --html=ThisHTMLReport.html
>  This html report can now be viewed in a browser.
> ******************************************
>
* Your solution will be reviewed by the engineers you would be working with if you joined Also Energy. We are interested in seeing your real-world design, coding, and testing skills.
* If you have any questions, please, email them to the person who sent you the challenge

___
## Challenge 2. Test plan
This challenge is for seasoned QA engineers. If you are applying to a Junior QA Eng position, you are not required to do it.

At Also Energy, we generate all kinds of alerts for the systems that we monitor. Let's think about how to write a test plan for zero generation alerts. This type of alert is triggered when a monitored system does not produce energy. We still receive the data from the system but the generation number is zero (hence, the name of the alert). When such an alert is created, the user is notified by an email message. When the alert is cleared, the user is notified by email again.

Alerts can be in one of the following states: `Open`, `Acknowledged`, or `Closed`. When an alert is first generated by the system it is in `Open` state. An email notification is sent to the user every day until the alert is `Acknowledged` by the user or `Closed` by the system.  An Alert is `Closed` when the condition that caused it ceases to occur (this can happen before it is acknowledged). In the case of zero generation alerts, that would be when the system starts reporting energy being generated again. A notification email should also be sent when any alert is `Closed`. 

Write a test plan for the system described above. The test plan should cover both alert lifecycle and notification systems. Please, assume that the tests will be automated and could be run anytime during development.

### Bonus
Solar panels don't produce energy at night. Therefore, we had to introduce the configuration parameters `sunset` and `sunrise` that define a time period in the day when we do NOT create zero-gen alerts. These parameters could be set and read via an API. Think about how you would test this configuration. Add a couple of test cases to your plan for this feature.
> *******************************************
> 'Alert' test plan :
> Assumption: there are multiple environments / accounts / users so that below tests can be run concurrently without cross-contamination.
> Let the expected results be 'ER'.
> Let the generation number be 'genNum'.  Therefore 2 conditions:
> 1) genNum=1
> 2) genNum=0
> Let the below test cases be run for at lease 3 concurrent days.
> The initial condition is that there are no alerts, i.e. genNum has consistently been 1.
>
> i) To cover above requirements we will conduct 4 test cases :
>
> A) genNum = 1
>	ER A1) no alerts
>	ER A2) data is received
>	ER A3) no emails
>
> B) genNum = 0
>	ER B1) alert state = 'Open'  (leave this value as constant)
>	ER B2) email received daily
> C) genNum = 0
>	ER C1) alert state = 'Open'  
>	ER C2) email received daily
>	Change alert state = 'Acknowledged'
>		ER C3) next day no email is received
> D) genNum = 0
>	ER D1) alert state = 'Open'  (leave this value as constant)
>	ER D2) email received daily
>	Change genNum = 1 
>		ER D3) alert state = 'Closed'
>		ER D4) email received that state is 'Closed'
>
> ii)To cover 'SOLAR PANELS' there are 2 states for above test cases - a total of 8 test cases :
>	
> A) configParam='sunrise' : Rerun above tests. All ER are identical.
> B) configParam='sunset'  : Rerun above tests. All ER are the same as genNum = 1.
>
> **********************************************************************************
